# SSSwin: Sequential Spectral Swin Transformer for Solar Panel Mapping in Satellite Imagery

Zhiyuan Yang, Ryan Rad

### Abstract
Global sustainability is increasingly reliant on solar energy. However, effectively monitoring solar farms and accurately assessing our progress in transitioning towards this renewable energy source remains a challenge, especially on a global scale. This study introduces SSSwin, a novel vision transformer model specifically developed to improve the mapping of solar panel farms using satellite imagery. The cornerstone of SSSwin is its Sequential Spectral Embedding module, uniquely designed to address the three-dimensional aspects of multispectral satellite images, enabling intricate capture of spatial-spectral data. To validate its effectiveness, we incorporated our new module into the design of two state-of-the-art models: UPerNet-SwinB and Mask2Former-SwinB. The experimental results demonstrate that this integration enhanced both of their performance without compromising efficiency.

### How to Apply the Module?
The experiment of this research is based on the mmsegmentation framework. We modified the existing embedding module in the mmsegmentation framework to the proposed Sequential Spectral Embedding module. To apply the module, you can replace the existing embedding module in the mmsegmentation framework with the proposed Sequential Spectral Embedding module. The location of the existing embedding module in the mmsegmentation framework is in the file `mmsegmentation/mmseg/models/utils/embed.py`. Just replace the existing embedding module with the module `embed.py` in this repository.